# e-yantra-Hackathon-2023
Caution crew Device 
Caution Crew is designed to provide the fall detection device with the soul mission to inform the hospital, police as well as his/her family of the accident or the person’s current condition, where today’s system are not efficient. There are many cases in which the normal system used to detect accidents cannot gather and process information in time causing many deaths. The revolutionary sensory technology can be considered as one of the most important machines in coming years of increasing population and traffic. The sensory device will be able to provide information efficiently rather than the currently used systems in vehicles. Falls detection system will be helpful in the emergency conditions due it’s fast mechanism which can efficiently detect accidents and is mostly helpful when the anomalies occurs on deserted road, untenanted urban road etc.
In caution crew device, we used Arduino UNO, LCD  I2C , GPS Module ,GSM module , micro sim card , pezometric buzzer ,push button with 1k  resistor . This device detects accident by getting the x, y and z axis values from accelerometer. This algorithm differentiate between parking mode and driving mode. So, it can detect crashes while you are driving. And It can also detect the crash when the vehicle is parked.
 Vehicle start and all the sensors activates and dashboard shows welcome screen as soon as the vehicle starts. All the activated sensors continuously sends the data to the processor. When the accidental case such as sudden decrease of speed or increased displacement, change in the angle of axis, sudden force acted on the vehicle, the change will be detected and acted upon by sending the massage to the said processor and a buzzer will be activated. The buzzer will be active for 2 minutes at the maximum.  In the said time, if the accident is not severe or it is a false alarm the person in the vehicle can inform about his/ her condition to the operator and switch off the buzzer manually. In case of a critical accidental conditions, the buzzer will activate and alert the operators as well as nearby inhabitants of the accident. If the buzzer is not switched off it will send the message and location of accident to the nearby hospital and traffic enforcement as well as the family member.
The falls detection device also has an assistance for giving the instruction to patient. The sensory system will survey the accidental prone urban areas/ road and detect any casualties. If the casualty is detected the location will be sent to the police station, hospital and family. 
The falls detection system tracks the location with the help of GPS sensor. A massage will be received from a system and will be attended by the server operator. The location of the patient will be tracked with the help of GPS system. The coordinates will be shared with police station. The GPS working system is based on IMEI number of the cell phone. The police will receive the precise latitude, longitude and altitude location of the patient.  Then ambulance and police reach the location of patient and further treatment is provided to the patient.  In the meantime, the server operator will connect to the nearby hospital and give them the location of the patient. The hospital will be said to be ready before the patient reaches so that the surgery can be performed quickly. 
 Challenges faced
1.	As we are not from a computer background, we faced many difficulties in programing and running of the code in aurdino uno, LCD 12C , GPS Module ,GSM module , micro sim card , pizometric buzzer ,push button with 1k  resistor
2.	We faced connection issue in gps module in romote locations where the satellite cannot catch the signal resulting in no massage being sent. 
	
